docs/references/javascript/sign-in/authenticate-with.mdx, before:

---
title: AuthenticateWith
description: These are all methods on the SignIn class that allow you to authenticate with different methods.
---

# AuthenticateWith

These are all methods on the [`SignIn`][signin-ref] class that allow you to authenticate a user.

## Methods

### `authenticateWithRedirect()`

Signs in users via OAuth. This is commonly known as Single Sign On (SSO), where an external account is used for verifying the user's identity.

```typescript
function authenticateWithRedirect(params: AuthenticateWithRedirectParams): Promise<void>;
```

#### `AuthenticateWithRedirectParams`

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `strategy` | `string` | The OAuth provider that will be used for signing in. Must be one of the supported [`OAuthStrategy`](/docs/references/javascript/types/oauth-strategy). |
| `redirectUrl` | `string` | The URL that the OAuth provider should redirect to, on successful authorization on their part. |
| `redirectUrlComplete` | `string` | The URL that the user will be redirected to, after successful authorization from the OAuth provider and Clerk sign in. |

### `authenticateWithMetamask()`

Starts a sign-in flow that uses the Metamask browser extension to authenticate the user using their public wallet address.

```typescript
function authenticateWithMetamask(): Promise<SignInResource>;
```

#### `authenticateWithMetamask()` returns

| Type | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `Promise<SignInResource>` | A `Promise` which resolves to the current [`SignIn`][signin-ref]. |

### `authenticateWithWeb3()`

Starts a sign-in flow that authenticates the user against their public wallet address.

```typescript
function authenticateWithWeb3(params: AuthenticateWithWeb3Params): Promise<SignInResource>;
```

#### `AuthenticateWithWeb3Params`

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `identifier` | `string` | The user's Web3 ID. |
| `generateSignature` | `(opts: GenerateSignatureParams) => Promise<string>` | The method of how to generate the signature for the Web3 sign-in. See [`GenerateSignatureParams`](#generate-signature-params) for more details. |

##### `GenerateSignatureParams`

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `identifier` | `string` | The user's Web3 ID. |
| `nonce` | `string` | The [cryptographic nonce](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic_nonce) used in the sign-in. |

#### `authenticateWithWeb3()` returns

| Type | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `Promise<SignInResource>` | A `Promise` which resolves to the current [`SignIn`][signin-ref]. |

[signin-ref]: /docs/references/javascript/sign-in/sign-in


### `authenticateWithPasskey()`

Starts a sign-in flow that allows a user to choose a passkey to sign into their account with.

```typescript
function authenticateWithPasskey: (params?: { flow?: 'autofill' | 'discoverable' }) => Promise<SignInResource>;
```

Learn more:
- [`SignInResource`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/sign-in)

Commit message:

Added more fleshed out description

docs/references/javascript/sign-in/authenticate-with.mdx, after:

---
title: AuthenticateWith
description: These are all methods on the SignIn class that allow you to authenticate with different methods.
---

# AuthenticateWith

These are all methods on the [`SignIn`][signin-ref] class that allow you to authenticate a user.

## Methods

### `authenticateWithRedirect()`

Signs in users via OAuth. This is commonly known as Single Sign On (SSO), where an external account is used for verifying the user's identity.

```typescript
function authenticateWithRedirect(params: AuthenticateWithRedirectParams): Promise<void>;
```

#### `AuthenticateWithRedirectParams`

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `strategy` | `string` | The OAuth provider that will be used for signing in. Must be one of the supported [`OAuthStrategy`](/docs/references/javascript/types/oauth-strategy). |
| `redirectUrl` | `string` | The URL that the OAuth provider should redirect to, on successful authorization on their part. |
| `redirectUrlComplete` | `string` | The URL that the user will be redirected to, after successful authorization from the OAuth provider and Clerk sign in. |

### `authenticateWithMetamask()`

Starts a sign-in flow that uses the Metamask browser extension to authenticate the user using their public wallet address.

```typescript
function authenticateWithMetamask(): Promise<SignInResource>;
```

#### `authenticateWithMetamask()` returns

| Type | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `Promise<SignInResource>` | A `Promise` which resolves to the current [`SignIn`][signin-ref]. |

### `authenticateWithWeb3()`

Starts a sign-in flow that authenticates the user against their public wallet address.

```typescript
function authenticateWithWeb3(params: AuthenticateWithWeb3Params): Promise<SignInResource>;
```

#### `AuthenticateWithWeb3Params`

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `identifier` | `string` | The user's Web3 ID. |
| `generateSignature` | `(opts: GenerateSignatureParams) => Promise<string>` | The method of how to generate the signature for the Web3 sign-in. See [`GenerateSignatureParams`](#generate-signature-params) for more details. |

##### `GenerateSignatureParams`

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `identifier` | `string` | The user's Web3 ID. |
| `nonce` | `string` | The [cryptographic nonce](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic_nonce) used in the sign-in. |

#### `authenticateWithWeb3()` returns

| Type | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `Promise<SignInResource>` | A `Promise` which resolves to the current [`SignIn`][signin-ref]. |

[signin-ref]: /docs/references/javascript/sign-in/sign-in


### `authenticateWithPasskey()`

Starts a sign-in flow that allows a user to choose a passkey to sign into their account with.

```typescript
function authenticateWithPasskey: (params?: { flow?: 'autofill' | 'discoverable' }) => Promise<SignInResource>;
```

Learn more:
- `flow`:
    - `'autofill'` enables the client to prompt your users to select a passkey before they interact with your app.
    - `'discoverable'` requires the user to interact with the client.
    - To call `authenticateWithPasskey()` with no params, you must first call `SignIn.create({ strategy: 'passkey' })`. This is useful if you don't know which sign-in strategy will be used. See the docs for [`SignIn.create()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/sign-in#create) for more information.
- [`SignInResource`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/sign-in)
