docs/custom-flows/passkeys.mdx, before:

---
title: Passkeys
description: Learn how to allow your users authenticate with passkeys with Clerk.
---

# Passkeys

<Callout type="Info">
  Passkey user sign-in is available on Pro plans. [Upgrade](/pricing) to enable this feature.
</Callout>

A passkey is a type of sign-in credential that requires one user action, but uses two authentication factors:
  1. A pin number or biometric data
  1. A physical device

Because of this, passkeys are generally more secure than passwords, and you should allow users to sign into your Clerk app with them. You can do so with the prebuilt [`<SignIn>`](/docs/components/authentication/sign-in) component, or with Clerk's JS SDK.

<Callout type="Info">
  Users can't create passkeys with the `<SignUp>` component.
</Callout>

## Enable passkeys in your dashboard

To use passkeys, you must first enable the feature in your Clerk Dashboard:

1. Visit the Dashboard and select your project.
1. Expand **User & Authentication**, then select [**Email, Phone, Username**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/email-phone-username).
1. Navigate to **Authentication strategies**, and toggle **Passkeys**.

## Manage user passkeys

If you're using the prebuilt [`<UserProfile>`](/docs/components/user/user-profile) component, your users can create and manage their passkeys in the **Security** section of their [account portal](/docs/account-portal/overview#account-portal-overview).

The following instructions will teach you how to enable this functionality with a custom UI.

### Create user passkeys

To create a passkey for a user, you must call the [`createPasskey()`](/docs/references/javascript/user/user#create-passkey) method on the [`User`](/docs/references/javascript/user/user) object as shown in the following example:

<CodeBlockTabs options={["Next.js App Router"]}>
```tsx filename="app/components/CustomCreatePasskeysButton.tsx"
"use client";

import { useUser } from "@clerk/nextjs";

export function CreatePasskeyButton() {
  const { user } = useUser();

  const createClerkPasskey = async () => {
    try {
      const response = await user?.__experimental_createPasskey();
      console.log(response);
    } catch (error) {
      console.log(error);
    }
  };

  return (
    <button onClick={createClerkPasskey}>
      Create a passkey now
    </button>
  );
}
```
</CodeBlockTabs>

### Rename user passkeys

Clerk generates a name based on the device associated with the passkey when it's created. Sometimes users may want to rename a passkey to make it easier to identify.

To rename a user's passkey in your Clerk app, you must call the [`update()`](/docs/references/javascript/types/passkey-resource#update) method of the passkey object as shown in the following example: 

<CodeBlockTabs options={["Next.js App router"]}>

```tsx filename="components/RenamePasskeyUI.tsx"
"use client";

import { useUser } from "@clerk/nextjs";
import { useRef, useState } from "react";

export function RenamePasskeyUI() {
  const { user } = useUser();
  const passkeyToUpdateId = useRef<HTMLInputElement>(null);
  const newPasskeyName = useRef<HTMLInputElement>(null);
  const { __experimental_passkeys } = user;
  const [success, setSuccess] = useState(false);

  const renamePasskey = async () => {
    try {
      const passkeyToUpdate = __experimental_passkeys?.find(
        (pk: PasskeyResource) => pk.id === passkeyToUpdateId.current?.value
      );
      const response = await passkeyToUpdate?.update({
        name: newPasskeyName.current?.value,
      });
      console.log(response);
      setSuccess(true);
    } catch (error) {
      console.log(error);
      setSuccess(false);
    }
  };

  return (
    <>
      <p>Passkeys:</p>
      <ul>
        {passkeys?.map((pk: PasskeyResource) => {
          return (
            <li key={pk.id}>
              Name: {pk.name} | ID: {pk.id}
            </li>
          );
        })}
      </ul>
      <input 
        ref={passkeyToUpdateId}
        type="text"
        placeholder="ID of passkey to update"
      />
      <input type="text" placeholder="New name" ref={newPasskeyName} />
      <button onClick={renamePasskey}>Rename your passkey</button>
      <p>Passkey updated: {success ? "Yes" : "No"}</p>
    </>
  );
}
```
</CodeBlockTabs>

### Delete user passkeys

To delete a user's passkey from your Clerk app, you must call the [`delete()`](/docs/references/javascript/types/passkey-resource#delete) method of the passkey object as shown in the following example: 

<CodeBlockTabs options={["Next.js App router"]}>
```tsx filename="components/DeletePasskeyUI.tsx"
"use client";

import { useUser } from "@clerk/nextjs";
import { useRef, useState } from "react";

export function DeletePasskeyUI() {
  const { user } = useUser();
  const passkeyToDeleteId = useRef<HTMLInputElement>(null);
  const { __experimental_passkeys } = user;
  const [success, setSuccess] = useState(false);

  const deletePasskey = async () => {
    try {
      const passkeyToDelete = __experimental_passkeys?.find(
        (pk: any) => pk.id === passkeyToDeleteId.current?.value
      );
      const response = await passkeyToDelete?.delete();
      console.log(response);
      setSuccess(true);
    } catch (error) {
      console.log(error);
      setSuccess(false);
    }
  };

  return (
    <>
      <p>Passkeys:</p>
      <ul>
        {passkeys?.map((pk: any) => {
          return (
            <li key={pk.id}>
              Name: {pk.name} | ID: {pk.id}
            </li>
          );
        })}
      </ul>
      <input
        ref={passkeyToDeleteId}
        type="text"
        placeholder="ID of passkey to delete"
      />
      <button onClick={deletePasskey}>Delete passkey</button>
      <p>Passkey deleted: {success ? "Yes" : "No"}</p>
    </>
  );
}
```
</CodeBlockTabs>

## Sign a user in with a passkey

To sign a user into your Clerk app with a passkey, you must call the [`authenticateWithPasskey()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/authenticate-with#authenticate-with-passkey) method of the [`SignIn`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/sign-in) object. This method allows users to choose from their discoverable passkeys, such as hardware keys or passkeys in password managers.

<CodeBlockTabs options={["Next.js App router"]}>
```tsx filename="components/SignInWithPasskeyButton.tsx"
"use client";

import { useSignIn } from "@clerk/nextjs";

export function SignInWithPasskeyButton() {
  const { signIn } = useSignIn();

  const signInWithPasskey = async () => {
    try {
      // 'discoverable' lets the user choose a passkey without autofilling
      // any of the options
      const response = await signIn?.__experimental_authenticateWithPasskey({ flow: 'discoverable' });
      console.log(response);
    } catch (error) {
      console.log(error);
    }
  };

  return (
    <button onClick={signInWithPasskey}>
      Sign in with a passkey
    </button>
  );
}
```
</CodeBlockTabs>


## Limitations

- Passkeys are not currently available as an MFA option.
- Not all devices and browsers are compatible with passkeys. passkeys are built on WebAuthn technology, and you should check [the Browser Compatibility docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API#browser_compatibility) for an up-to-date list.
    - Passkeys are not officially supported in browsers on iOS devices.
- Your users can have a max of 10 passkeys per account.

Commit message:

Attempt to document passkey crossdomain behavior

docs/custom-flows/passkeys.mdx, after:

---
title: Passkeys
description: Learn how to allow your users authenticate with passkeys with Clerk.
---

# Passkeys

<Callout type="Info">
  Passkey user sign-in is available on Pro plans. [Upgrade](/pricing) to enable this feature.
</Callout>

A passkey is a type of sign-in credential that requires one user action, but uses two authentication factors:
  1. A pin number or biometric data
  1. A physical device

Because of this, passkeys are generally more secure than passwords, and you should allow users to sign into your Clerk app with them. You can do so with the prebuilt [`<SignIn>`](/docs/components/authentication/sign-in) component, or with Clerk's JS SDK.

<Callout type="Info">
  Users can't create passkeys with the `<SignUp>` component.
</Callout>

## Enable passkeys in your dashboard

To use passkeys, you must first enable the feature in your Clerk Dashboard:

1. Visit the Dashboard and select your project.
1. Expand **User & Authentication**, then select [**Email, Phone, Username**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/email-phone-username).
1. Navigate to **Authentication strategies**, and toggle **Passkeys**.

## Manage user passkeys

If you're using the prebuilt [`<UserProfile>`](/docs/components/user/user-profile) component, your users can create and manage their passkeys in the **Security** section of their [account portal](/docs/account-portal/overview#account-portal-overview).

The following instructions will teach you how to enable this functionality with a custom UI.

### Create user passkeys

To create a passkey for a user, you must call the [`createPasskey()`](/docs/references/javascript/user/user#create-passkey) method on the [`User`](/docs/references/javascript/user/user) object as shown in the following example:

<CodeBlockTabs options={["Next.js App Router"]}>
```tsx filename="app/components/CustomCreatePasskeysButton.tsx"
"use client";

import { useUser } from "@clerk/nextjs";

export function CreatePasskeyButton() {
  const { user } = useUser();

  const createClerkPasskey = async () => {
    try {
      const response = await user?.__experimental_createPasskey();
      console.log(response);
    } catch (error) {
      console.log(error);
    }
  };

  return (
    <button onClick={createClerkPasskey}>
      Create a passkey now
    </button>
  );
}
```
</CodeBlockTabs>

#### Passkey cross-domain behavior

Passkeys are associated with the domain they're created on, and cannot be used across domains. For example, a passkey created in localhost will not work with your app's [hosted account portal or sign-in pages](/docs/account-portal/overview#account-portal-overview). This is because passkeys created in local development will be associated with the `localhost:XXXX` domain, which is different from your hosted account portal domain.

The following table illustrates how passkeys will behave based on the domain they're created under.

| Created in | Works in |
| ---------- | -------- |
| Localhost  | <ul><li>Localhost only</li></ul> |
| Dev instance portal | <ul><li>Dev instance portal only</li></ul> |
| Prod instance portal | <ul><li>Prod instance portal</li><li>Production</li></ul> |
| Production | <ul><li>Prod instance portal</li><li>Production</li></ul> |

### Rename user passkeys

Clerk generates a name based on the device associated with the passkey when it's created. Sometimes users may want to rename a passkey to make it easier to identify.

To rename a user's passkey in your Clerk app, you must call the [`update()`](/docs/references/javascript/types/passkey-resource#update) method of the passkey object as shown in the following example: 

<CodeBlockTabs options={["Next.js App router"]}>

```tsx filename="components/RenamePasskeyUI.tsx"
"use client";

import { useUser } from "@clerk/nextjs";
import { useRef, useState } from "react";

export function RenamePasskeyUI() {
  const { user } = useUser();
  const passkeyToUpdateId = useRef<HTMLInputElement>(null);
  const newPasskeyName = useRef<HTMLInputElement>(null);
  const { __experimental_passkeys } = user;
  const [success, setSuccess] = useState(false);

  const renamePasskey = async () => {
    try {
      const passkeyToUpdate = __experimental_passkeys?.find(
        (pk: PasskeyResource) => pk.id === passkeyToUpdateId.current?.value
      );
      const response = await passkeyToUpdate?.update({
        name: newPasskeyName.current?.value,
      });
      console.log(response);
      setSuccess(true);
    } catch (error) {
      console.log(error);
      setSuccess(false);
    }
  };

  return (
    <>
      <p>Passkeys:</p>
      <ul>
        {passkeys?.map((pk: PasskeyResource) => {
          return (
            <li key={pk.id}>
              Name: {pk.name} | ID: {pk.id}
            </li>
          );
        })}
      </ul>
      <input 
        ref={passkeyToUpdateId}
        type="text"
        placeholder="ID of passkey to update"
      />
      <input type="text" placeholder="New name" ref={newPasskeyName} />
      <button onClick={renamePasskey}>Rename your passkey</button>
      <p>Passkey updated: {success ? "Yes" : "No"}</p>
    </>
  );
}
```
</CodeBlockTabs>

### Delete user passkeys

To delete a user's passkey from your Clerk app, you must call the [`delete()`](/docs/references/javascript/types/passkey-resource#delete) method of the passkey object as shown in the following example: 

<CodeBlockTabs options={["Next.js App router"]}>
```tsx filename="components/DeletePasskeyUI.tsx"
"use client";

import { useUser } from "@clerk/nextjs";
import { useRef, useState } from "react";

export function DeletePasskeyUI() {
  const { user } = useUser();
  const passkeyToDeleteId = useRef<HTMLInputElement>(null);
  const { __experimental_passkeys } = user;
  const [success, setSuccess] = useState(false);

  const deletePasskey = async () => {
    try {
      const passkeyToDelete = __experimental_passkeys?.find(
        (pk: any) => pk.id === passkeyToDeleteId.current?.value
      );
      const response = await passkeyToDelete?.delete();
      console.log(response);
      setSuccess(true);
    } catch (error) {
      console.log(error);
      setSuccess(false);
    }
  };

  return (
    <>
      <p>Passkeys:</p>
      <ul>
        {passkeys?.map((pk: any) => {
          return (
            <li key={pk.id}>
              Name: {pk.name} | ID: {pk.id}
            </li>
          );
        })}
      </ul>
      <input
        ref={passkeyToDeleteId}
        type="text"
        placeholder="ID of passkey to delete"
      />
      <button onClick={deletePasskey}>Delete passkey</button>
      <p>Passkey deleted: {success ? "Yes" : "No"}</p>
    </>
  );
}
```
</CodeBlockTabs>

## Sign a user in with a passkey

To sign a user into your Clerk app with a passkey, you must call the [`authenticateWithPasskey()`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/authenticate-with#authenticate-with-passkey) method of the [`SignIn`](/docs/references/javascript/sign-in/sign-in) object. This method allows users to choose from their discoverable passkeys, such as hardware keys or passkeys in password managers.

<CodeBlockTabs options={["Next.js App router"]}>
```tsx filename="components/SignInWithPasskeyButton.tsx"
"use client";

import { useSignIn } from "@clerk/nextjs";

export function SignInWithPasskeyButton() {
  const { signIn } = useSignIn();

  const signInWithPasskey = async () => {
    try {
      // 'discoverable' lets the user choose a passkey without autofilling
      // any of the options
      const response = await signIn?.__experimental_authenticateWithPasskey({ flow: 'discoverable' });
      console.log(response);
    } catch (error) {
      console.log(error);
    }
  };

  return (
    <button onClick={signInWithPasskey}>
      Sign in with a passkey
    </button>
  );
}
```
</CodeBlockTabs>


## Limitations

- Passkeys are not currently available as an MFA option.
- Not all devices and browsers are compatible with passkeys. passkeys are built on WebAuthn technology, and you should check [the Browser Compatibility docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Authentication_API#browser_compatibility) for an up-to-date list.
    - Passkeys are not officially supported in browsers on iOS devices.
- Your users can have a max of 10 passkeys per account.
